---
title: "Learning strict identity mappings in deep residual networks"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-10-01-pruning-cvpr2018
excerpt: 'We hypothesize that it is easier to optimize the residual mapping than to optimize the original,
         unreferenced mapping.'
date: 2018-10-01
venue: 'CVPR'
paperurl: 'http://yuxwind.github.io/files/pruning-cvpr2018.pdf'
citation: '<b>Yu, X.</b>, Yu, Z. and Ramalingam, S., 2018. Learning strict identity
mappings in deep residual networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (pp. 4432-4440) (CVPR 2018)'
---

A family of super deep networks, referred to as residual networks or
ResNet~cite{he2016deep}, achieved record-beating performance in various visual
tasks such as image recognition, object detection, and semantic segmentation.
The ability to train very deep networks naturally pushed the researchers to use
enormous resources to achieve the best performance. Consequently, in many
applications super deep residual networks were employed for just a marginal
improvement in performance. In this paper, we propose $epsilon$-ResNet that
allows us to automatically discard redundant layers, which produces responses
that are smaller than a threshold $epsilon$, without any loss in performance.
The $epsilon$-ResNet architecture can be achieved using a few additional
rectified linear units in the original ResNet. Our method does not use any
additional variables nor numerous trials like other hyper-parameter optimization
techniques. The layer selection is achieved using a single training process and
the evaluation is performed on CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, SVHN, and ImageNet datasets.
In some instances, we achieve about 80% reduction in the number of parameters.

[Download paper here](http://yuxwind.github.io/files/pruning-cvpr2018.pdf)

Recommended citation:  <b>Yu, X.</b>, Yu, Z. and Ramalingam, S., 2018. Learning strict identity mappings in
deep residual networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (pp. 4432-4440).

<code>
@InProceedings{Yu_2018_CVPR,
  author = {Yu, Xin and Yu, Zhiding and Ramalingam, Srikumar},
  title = {Learning Strict Identity Mappings in Deep Residual Networks},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
    Recognition (CVPR)},
  month = {June},
  year = {2018}
}
<code>
